Project Title: Shopping Path Optimization Application
Team Members: Anthony Olvera, Colin Bradley, Adam Grabowski, Jeff LaPrade

Vision statement:
This application is designed to generate the shortest path through a store in which users can pick up the items they're shopping for and have previously added to virtual shopping cart. The application will be linked to a store database so users can select the items they wish to purchase, the application will then generate the shortest route through the store to collect all their items. Potential customers include grocery, convenience, hardware store chains etc. It would be beneficial for the businesses as it would improve customer shopping efficiency and potentially attract more or new customers. This could eventually lead to an increase in revenue. Another customer would the shoppers themselves, such an application could save busy shoppers time by optimizing their shopping experience. 

Motivation:
We are working on this project not only because it’s a practical means of exercising software development techniques which will be beneficial to all of us in a future career. But also, to gain working knowledge in languages such as html, css and sql. We are all limited in our knowledge and experience with web development so this project will give us a foothold in this field in case any of us choose a career path involving such tasks.

Risks:
As stated above we have limited experience with back/front end web development so there may be a steep learning curve involved with completing this project. Another concern is that It may be challenging to generate a visual map of a store as well as overlay the path on top of the image. We are also new to the software development strategies that we will need to utilize to complete this project.  Another potential risk is that team members have different schedules and are working form different locations and time zones. Lastly, we discussed that the type of data base we’re attempting to link to our application may not be available to us.

Mitigation Strategy:
Regarding the learning curve, we will assign tasks appropriately to team member who have strengths in each field. In addition, we are all full-time students taking this and other important computer science courses and will all be gaining relevant knowledge throughout the semester. A lot of which will be applicable to this project. A potential solution to the difficulty in generating a map can be solved by instead using traditional text directions instead. In response to our different schedules and locations we will be using effective communication tools such as zoom for video conferencing and slack for instant messaging. We’ve discussed the project and if a similar data base is unavailable to us we have decided we can create our own, and use as a proof of concept.

Development Method:
The project will be organized and managed by Colin Bradley who is our scrum master. Each week we will organize tasks using Trello as our Kanban board. We will use an agile development method. Perhaps three sprints each one its own waterfall. Each sprint will consist of the following stages. Requirements; We will discuss what tasks the application needs to complete and collaborate on exactly how the app should function. Next will be the design phase, this will involve sharing sketches of the what the front end should look like, creating pseudo code and planning the specifics of how we will get the application working.  Next will be the implementation phase. In this phase we will begin coding and developing the software itself, perhaps using a pair programming approach and making initial commits to our repository. The next stage is the verification/testing phase. In this phase we will test the software. Does it work in all circumstances? We will try to break it, exposing bugs which we will need to fix along the next sprint. The last phase after all sprints is the maintenance phase. Assuming everything is working properly, keep the software up to date and perhaps implement more improvements.                
Tracking Software:
For project task tracking we’ve created a team Trello board and will utilize it for tracking all tasks.   
